

This application is intended to demo/document code working with
Qt Widgets, Qt Sql Widgets, and closely related objects.


----------------------- Table of Contents -----------------

---- GUI

---- Help

---- QTSql

---- Purpose/Functionality
---- Finding a Widget
---- Tracing the code
---- Mutate
---- QtWidgets

---- qt_sql_widgets -- work in pipeline

---- QtWidgets Old
---- Code Style
---- Parameters

---- Author and Credits



--------------------------------------------------------

---- Purpose/Functionality--------------------------------------------------------------------------

This application in intended to show how to use Qt widgets largely through
a running application, inspection of the code behind it, and some documentation ( like this file ).

Most of the widgets have some visual aspect, but especially for the sql widgets
they also have some important non visual aspects.  The code should illustrate
both.

---- Finding a Widget

    The application opens with two tabs ope, neither is directly related to
    showing how a widget works.
    
    You need to search for widgets -- this is the purpose of the first tab.
    It implements a key word search for widgets -- a mini google inside the
    application.
    
    So enter one or more terms ( hit enter or press <search> and you will
    get a lits of tabs that illustrate that widget. 
    
    Click on the item in the list that seems best for what you want and
    you will be moved to that tab ( which may first be opened )
    
    Search terms might be 
    
            *the name of the widget ( ex: QLineEdit )
            *a generic name ( ex: text or text edit )
            *a suggestion of its use ( ex: input )
            
    Search is insensitive to capitalization and somewhat insensitive
    to plurals.
    
    If one search does not work try another.
   
---- Finding the code
    see tracing the code below 

---- Mutate
              

Use of widgets involves several different programming aspects:

    Widget creation and the setting of widget properties.  These
    properties govern widget appearance and behavior.

    Connection widget events to actions

    Reading of widget state, getting information about the widgets.

    Placement of the widgets on windows.

All of this involves a lot of code.  We will illustrate as much of it
as we have energy for, hopefully what is here will be useful to you.

The widgets have been divided into group that are shown on an individual
tab.  Some tabs illustrate more than one type of widget.  In some cases
a single widget may be shown on more than one tab.

Each tab is itself a descendant of QWidget and coded in its own class.
Hopefully this keep the code for a single widget in a fairly small easy
to understand space.

Of course to illustrate the use of widgets we need to use some widget
to "hold" our illustrations.  This code may also be of use.  For example
the construction of tabs is illustrated by the framework of this application

Individual tabs ( sometime as their own classes extended from QWidget )
illustrating the use of some   widgets.

May be detailed help on each tab.

There are also other helper classes defined, use find to find where used.

----GUI--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Each topic gets its own tab which is coded in its own object
to make examination of the code easier than if this whole thing
was in one giant namespace.

Each Tab has its own help file, this this the General Help for all
the tabs.

 

Typical Tab Functionality:

    The tabs are divided into three may areas:
    
    1.  the widges of interest.
    2.  buttons for interaction with the widgets (typically labele with the name
        of the method they call 
    3.  An area to report on what is happening in the tab, information that is
        also printed to your console.

    Usually a tab displays some widgets of interest and some buttons
    to interact with underlying objects.  The buttons are often labeled
    with the name of the function they call, this is a bit ugly but
    makes it easier to find the code called by the button.

    Common buttons

        print something     buttons do not say this but any time you press
                            a button keep your eye on the console output

        <mutate>            most widgets have a lot of state and minipulation of this
                            state at runtime is very useful.  The mutate button loop
                            through a series of mutations of the widgets that
                            may be of interest.  The number of mutations on
                            each tab varies.  While the button says mutate it
                            may also display state 

        <inspect>           this pulls up an gui version of wat

        <breakpoint>        breaks into the debugger in the tab object you are viewing
                            this can be very useful to find the code for the tab
                            and can let you add additional breakpoints from your
                            ide.  Very useful when running from Spyder.
                            
                            
        <print>             old style button for reporting state, now
                            merge into mutate.  will be deleted                   

 

---- Help ------------------------

    From the menu in the upper left of each window are sub menus for
    access to help

        .... General Help ... this document
        .... CurrentTab Help ... help about the tabpage that is open

            Readme.MD
            Developer Notes

    A feature of the current tab Help is the section called:
        Ask a ChatBot -- these are questions that a ChatBot can be
                         asked to give you further insight


---- Tracing the code

    Each tabpage is in it own module often with just one class and typically only 300 to 600 lines, divided into
    many methods.
    
    When you search for a tab the results displays the module to be used and the class in that object.

    When you interact watch the gui, and check the console.

    If you wonder why the tab page looks the way it does see _build_gui()
        in other words to see how the object is built see:  _build_gui for the object

    Buttons are usually labeled with the method they call, and when a method is called
    it prints its name in the console.
    
    A very easy way to find/edit the module is to use the breakpoint button.  In most
    ide this will open the module and put you in debug mode ( exit it by using the continue
    function of the debugger )

    The coding style is on the verbose side to make things clear, the formatting is
    non-standard, run black or something on it if you want. ( you need not tell me how wrong I am )

    I have tried to be consistent in naming so that function describe what they do, or
    what triggered them.

    Names attempt to be consistent so once you learn your way around one tab it should
    help with other tabs.

    Generally there are methods that are run when:
        You push a button
        You click or right click an object

        see the individual help for each object

    Other methods have names that are pretty good giveaways as to what they do.

    Methods often execute something like:

        self.append_function_msg( "mutate_0" )
        where this argument is the name of the method, should make finding code easy.

  

----Code Style--------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The code style is formatted the way i like it, far from PEP 8, run black... on it if you want.

    The style is a bit pedantic, some code could be more compact, I am going for clarity here.

    I have tried to use good names.... to make the code friendly to cut and paste...


----QTSql--------------------------------------------------------------------------

About QT SQL Widgets

    The QT SQL widgets implement a ORM for a database in a version
    of a Model View setup.

    That is the database is accessed trough some sort of object ( the ORM )
    and often viewed through another object the view.

    So for example the TableModel is an ORM to a single table and
    the TableView is a widget that makes the TableModel visible

    see:



Next bit is garbled:

 


Tabs by widget -- now in gui delete me soon 

    QTableWidget

        Holds and display data without any SQL
        interface, does not need a view

    QTableView
        build_tvrmd_tab

    QSqlQueryModel
        not yet
        seems to run a query can we loop thru one at a time

    QSqlTableModel
         !!QSqlTableModel with Pagination:

        If you still want to use a model for display but are concerned about loading all rows into


      memory at once, you can implement pagination. This involves querying and displaying only a           subset        of rows at a time.




---- Parameters
    Some aspects of the program are controlled by a module called parameters ( parameters.py )
    For now the documentation of the parameters is in the code of the module.

    It is early in this process much is broken


 

Overall App Illustrates:
    Illustrates:
        A main window  ( code in: QtWidgetExamplesInTabs or whatever i decide is a better name )
        TabNotebook with a lot of individual tabs
            Tabs show the ability to create, name, move, and close
            plus other stuff shown in the code.



Individual Tabs:

   
    Each tab is documented internally by comments, by text printed to the console when you
    interact with the tab, and by a text file document, like this, for each tab.

 
    if lower case with underscores they the text is the method name being called



Reading the code:


    I sometimes have a Search comment at the top of the code to help you find code of interest

            Try them, and read the docs for more information.


---- Author and Credits


        My Repositories
        https://github.com/russ-hensel?tab=repositories


        Icons may be sourced from:

            fugue-icons · PyPI
            https://pypi.org/project/fugue-icons/

            p.yusukekamiyamane - Free stock icons + pixel fonts
            https://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/

            Hi, I’m Yusuke Kamiyamane. Freelance designer, developer and factotum based in Tokyo, Japan.


            Contact information

            Bonheur Un 202, 3-1-64, Midori-cho, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 184-0003, Japan
            +81 90 2940 5661 (Japanese)
            p@yusukekamiyamane.com


================= eof ===============
